readme.md, before:

<br />
<div align="center">
   <img alt="Audiobookshelf Banner" src="https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf/raw/master/images/banner.svg" width="600">

  <p align="center">
    <br />
    <a href="https://audiobookshelf.org/docs">Documentation</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://audiobookshelf.org/install">Install Guides</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://audiobookshelf.org/support">Support</a>
  </p>
</div>

## About

Audiobookshelf is a self-hosted audiobook server for managing and playing your audiobooks.

### Features

* Fully **open-source**, including the [android & iOS app](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf-app) *(in beta)*
* Stream all audiobook formats on the fly
* Multi-user support w/ custom permissions
* Keeps progress per user and syncs across devices
* Auto-detects library updates, no need to re-scan
* Upload full audiobooks and covers
* Backup your metadata + automated daily backups

Is there a feature you are looking for? [Suggest it](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf/issues/new)

Android app is in beta, try it out on the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.audiobookshelf.app)

iOS early beta available using Test Flight: https://testflight.apple.com/join/wiic7QIW - [Join the discussion](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf-app/discussions/60)

<img alt="Library Screenshot" src="https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf/raw/master/images/LibraryStream.png" />

## Organizing your audiobooks

#### Directory structure and folder names are important to Audiobookshelf!

 See [documentation](https://audiobookshelf.org/docs) for supported directory structure, folder naming conventions, and audio file metadata usage.


## Installation

** Default username is "root" with no password

### Docker Install
Available in Unraid Community Apps

```bash
docker pull advplyr/audiobookshelf

docker run -d \
  -e AUDIOBOOKSHELF_UID=99 \
  -e AUDIOBOOKSHELF_GID=100 \
  -p 13378:80 \
  -v </path/to/audiobooks>:/audiobooks \
  -v </path/to/config>:/config \
  -v </path/to/metadata>:/metadata \
  --name audiobookshelf \
  --rm advplyr/audiobookshelf
```

### Running with Docker Compose

```bash
### docker-compose.yml ###
services:
  audiobookshelf:
    image: advplyr/audiobookshelf
    ports:
      - 13378:80
    volumes:
      - <path/to/your/audiobooks>:/audiobooks
      - <path/to/metadata>:/metadata
      - <path/to/config>:/config
```


### Linux (amd64) Install

Debian package will use this config file `/etc/default/audiobookshelf` if exists. The install will create a user and group named `audiobookshelf`.

### Ubuntu Install via PPA

A PPA is hosted on [github](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf-ppa), add and install:

```bash
curl -s --compressed "https://advplyr.github.io/audiobookshelf-ppa/KEY.gpg" | sudo apt-key add - 

sudo curl -s --compressed -o /etc/apt/sources.list.d/audiobookshelf.list "https://advplyr.github.io/audiobookshelf-ppa/audiobookshelf.list" 

sudo apt update 

sudo apt install audiobookshelf
```

or use a single command

```bash
curl -s --compressed "https://advplyr.github.io/audiobookshelf-ppa/KEY.gpg" | sudo apt-key add - && sudo curl -s --compressed -o /etc/apt/sources.list.d/audiobookshelf.list "https://advplyr.github.io/audiobookshelf-ppa/audiobookshelf.list" && sudo apt update && sudo apt install audiobookshelf
```

### Install via debian package

Get the `deb` file from the [github repo](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf-ppa).

See [instructions](https://www.audiobookshelf.org/install#debian)


#### Linux file locations

Project directory: `/usr/share/audiobookshelf/`

Config file: `/etc/default/audiobookshelf`

System Service: `/lib/systemd/system/audiobookshelf.service`

Ffmpeg static build: `/usr/lib/audiobookshelf-ffmpeg/`

## Reverse Proxy Set Up

#### Important! Audiobookshelf requires a websocket connection.

### NGINX Proxy Manager

Toggle websockets support.

<img alt="NGINX Web socket" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/67830747/153679106-b2a7f5b9-0702-48c6-9740-b26b401986e9.png" />

### NGINX Reverse Proxy

Add this to the site config file on your nginx server after you have changed the relevant parts in the <> brackets, and inserted your certificate paths.


```bash
server
{
        listen 443 ssl;
        server_name <sub>.<domain>.<tld>;

        access_log /var/log/nginx/audiobookshelf.access.log;
        error_log /var/log/nginx/audiobookshelf.error.log;

        ssl_certificate      /path/to/certificate;
        ssl_certificate_key  /path/to/key;

        location / {
                     proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For    $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
                     proxy_set_header  X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
                     proxy_set_header  Host              $host;
                     proxy_set_header Upgrade            $http_upgrade;
                     proxy_set_header Connection         "upgrade";

                     proxy_http_version                  1.1;

                     proxy_pass                          http://<URL_to_forward_to>;
                     proxy_redirect                      http:// https://;
                   }
}
``` 

### Apache Reverse Proxy

Add this to the site config file on your Apache server after you have changed the relevant parts in the <> brackets, and inserted your certificate paths.

For this to work you must enable at least the following mods using `a2enmod`:
  - `ssl`
  - `proxy_module`
  - `proxy_wstunnel_module`
  - `rewrite_module`

```bash
<IfModule mod_ssl.c>
<VirtualHost *:443>
    ServerName <sub>.<domain>.<tld>

    ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
    CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined

    ProxyPreserveHost On
    ProxyPass / http://localhost:<audiobookshelf_port>/
    RewriteEngine on
    RewriteCond %{HTTP:Upgrade} websocket [NC]
    RewriteCond %{HTTP:Connection} upgrade [NC]
    RewriteRule ^/?(.*) "ws://localhost:<audiobookshelf_port>/$1" [P,L]

    # unless you're doing something special this should be generated by a
    # tool like certbot by let's encrypt
    SSLCertificateFile /path/to/cert/file
    SSLCertificateKeyFile /path/to/key/file
</VirtualHost>
</IfModule>
```


### SWAG Reverse Proxy

[See this solution](https://forums.unraid.net/topic/112698-support-audiobookshelf/?do=findComment&comment=1049637)

## Run from source

[See discussion](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf/discussions/259#discussioncomment-1869729)

## Contributing / How to Support

[See the incomplete "How to Support" page](https://www.audiobookshelf.org/support)

Commit message:

Update readme with synology reverse proxy setup

readme.md, after:

<br />
<div align="center">
   <img alt="Audiobookshelf Banner" src="https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf/raw/master/images/banner.svg" width="600">

  <p align="center">
    <br />
    <a href="https://audiobookshelf.org/docs">Documentation</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://audiobookshelf.org/install">Install Guides</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://audiobookshelf.org/support">Support</a>
  </p>
</div>

# About

Audiobookshelf is a self-hosted audiobook server for managing and playing your audiobooks.

### Features

* Fully **open-source**, including the [android & iOS app](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf-app) *(in beta)*
* Stream all audiobook formats on the fly
* Multi-user support w/ custom permissions
* Keeps progress per user and syncs across devices
* Auto-detects library updates, no need to re-scan
* Upload full audiobooks and covers
* Backup your metadata + automated daily backups

Is there a feature you are looking for? [Suggest it](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf/issues/new)

Android app is in beta, try it out on the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.audiobookshelf.app)

iOS early beta available using Test Flight: https://testflight.apple.com/join/wiic7QIW - [Join the discussion](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf-app/discussions/60)

<img alt="Library Screenshot" src="https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf/raw/master/images/LibraryStream.png" />

# Organizing your audiobooks

#### Directory structure and folder names are important to Audiobookshelf!

 See [documentation](https://audiobookshelf.org/docs) for supported directory structure, folder naming conventions, and audio file metadata usage.

<br />
<br />

# Installation

** Default username is "root" with no password

### Docker Install
Available in Unraid Community Apps

```bash
docker pull advplyr/audiobookshelf

docker run -d \
  -e AUDIOBOOKSHELF_UID=99 \
  -e AUDIOBOOKSHELF_GID=100 \
  -p 13378:80 \
  -v </path/to/audiobooks>:/audiobooks \
  -v </path/to/config>:/config \
  -v </path/to/metadata>:/metadata \
  --name audiobookshelf \
  --rm advplyr/audiobookshelf
```

### Running with Docker Compose

```bash
### docker-compose.yml ###
services:
  audiobookshelf:
    image: advplyr/audiobookshelf
    ports:
      - 13378:80
    volumes:
      - <path/to/your/audiobooks>:/audiobooks
      - <path/to/metadata>:/metadata
      - <path/to/config>:/config
```


### Linux (amd64) Install

Debian package will use this config file `/etc/default/audiobookshelf` if exists. The install will create a user and group named `audiobookshelf`.

### Ubuntu Install via PPA

A PPA is hosted on [github](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf-ppa), add and install:

```bash
curl -s --compressed "https://advplyr.github.io/audiobookshelf-ppa/KEY.gpg" | sudo apt-key add - 

sudo curl -s --compressed -o /etc/apt/sources.list.d/audiobookshelf.list "https://advplyr.github.io/audiobookshelf-ppa/audiobookshelf.list" 

sudo apt update 

sudo apt install audiobookshelf
```

or use a single command

```bash
curl -s --compressed "https://advplyr.github.io/audiobookshelf-ppa/KEY.gpg" | sudo apt-key add - && sudo curl -s --compressed -o /etc/apt/sources.list.d/audiobookshelf.list "https://advplyr.github.io/audiobookshelf-ppa/audiobookshelf.list" && sudo apt update && sudo apt install audiobookshelf
```

### Install via debian package

Get the `deb` file from the [github repo](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf-ppa).

See [instructions](https://www.audiobookshelf.org/install#debian)


#### Linux file locations

Project directory: `/usr/share/audiobookshelf/`

Config file: `/etc/default/audiobookshelf`

System Service: `/lib/systemd/system/audiobookshelf.service`

Ffmpeg static build: `/usr/lib/audiobookshelf-ffmpeg/`

<br />
<br />
# Reverse Proxy Set Up

#### Important! Audiobookshelf requires a websocket connection.

### NGINX Proxy Manager

Toggle websockets support.

<img alt="NGINX Web socket" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/67830747/153679106-b2a7f5b9-0702-48c6-9740-b26b401986e9.png" />

### NGINX Reverse Proxy

Add this to the site config file on your nginx server after you have changed the relevant parts in the <> brackets, and inserted your certificate paths.


```bash
server
{
        listen 443 ssl;
        server_name <sub>.<domain>.<tld>;

        access_log /var/log/nginx/audiobookshelf.access.log;
        error_log /var/log/nginx/audiobookshelf.error.log;

        ssl_certificate      /path/to/certificate;
        ssl_certificate_key  /path/to/key;

        location / {
                     proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For    $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
                     proxy_set_header  X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
                     proxy_set_header  Host              $host;
                     proxy_set_header Upgrade            $http_upgrade;
                     proxy_set_header Connection         "upgrade";

                     proxy_http_version                  1.1;

                     proxy_pass                          http://<URL_to_forward_to>;
                     proxy_redirect                      http:// https://;
                   }
}
``` 

### Apache Reverse Proxy

Add this to the site config file on your Apache server after you have changed the relevant parts in the <> brackets, and inserted your certificate paths.

For this to work you must enable at least the following mods using `a2enmod`:
  - `ssl`
  - `proxy_module`
  - `proxy_wstunnel_module`
  - `rewrite_module`

```bash
<IfModule mod_ssl.c>
<VirtualHost *:443>
    ServerName <sub>.<domain>.<tld>

    ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
    CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined

    ProxyPreserveHost On
    ProxyPass / http://localhost:<audiobookshelf_port>/
    RewriteEngine on
    RewriteCond %{HTTP:Upgrade} websocket [NC]
    RewriteCond %{HTTP:Connection} upgrade [NC]
    RewriteRule ^/?(.*) "ws://localhost:<audiobookshelf_port>/$1" [P,L]

    # unless you're doing something special this should be generated by a
    # tool like certbot by let's encrypt
    SSLCertificateFile /path/to/cert/file
    SSLCertificateKeyFile /path/to/key/file
</VirtualHost>
</IfModule>
```


### SWAG Reverse Proxy

[See this solution](https://forums.unraid.net/topic/112698-support-audiobookshelf/?do=findComment&comment=1049637)

### Synology Reverse Proxy

1. Open Control Panel > Application Portal
2. Change to the Reverse Proxy tab
3. Select the proxy rule for which you want to enable Websockets and click on Edit
4. Change to the "Custom Header" tab
5. Click Create > WebSocket
6. Click Save

[from @silentArtifact](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf/issues/241#issuecomment-1036732329)



# Run from source

[See discussion](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf/discussions/259#discussioncomment-1869729)

# Contributing / How to Support

[See the incomplete "How to Support" page](https://www.audiobookshelf.org/support)
